hello its ruvi and today i am going to
be telling you the top 200 books I have
ever read I don't think it's a secret at
this point that I really do like reading
I've just always really loved books and
I wanted to share with you my top book
recommendations and basically these are
200 books that I think everyone should
try to read they're very very varied for
kids I do read very literature I don't
read all the same genre or same author
so this video is going to be separated
into classics
contemporary fiction non-fiction middle
grade and why a fiction hopefully
there's something here for everyone I
hope that you walk away with some good
book recommendations lastly stay tuned
to the end of the video because I have a
very exciting and fun and cool
announcement that I have been waiting to
share with you for about a month or two
now it's just going to be really fun and
if you are a big bookworm like me I'm
assuming you are if you've clicked on
this video then stay tuned to the end of
the video because I feel like you might
enjoy this announcement
so we are going to start with classics I
feel like that's quite a solid place to
start and I have got 43 classics to
share with you the Odyssey translated by
Emily Wilson Jane Eyre by Charlotte
Bronte Frankenstein by Mary Shelley
Dracula by Bram Stoker the tenant of
Wildfell Hall by Anne Bronte Rebecca by
Daphne du Maurier also Jamaica Inn by
Daphne du Maurier which isn't as good as
Rebecca but de mauryas writing is just
remarkable
I'm very accessible actually but if you
want to get into classics I think Daphne
du Maurier is a good place to start
The Scarlet Letter by Nathaniel
Hawthorne Moby Dick by Herman Melville
Sylvia Plath's journals the bell jar by
Sylvia Plath then I've got four
shakespeare plays these are my top four
shakes the players which are King Lear
The Winter's Tale Macbeth and much ado
about nothing to Kill a Mockingbird by
Harper Lee Paradise Lost by John Milton
Breakfast at Tiffany's by Truman Capote
a diary of a nobody the Picture of
Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde a Study in
Scarlet by Arthur Conan Doyle the Great
Gatsby by scott Fitzgerald the
go-between Fahrenheit 451 by Ray
Bradbury this was the book that really
got me into reading dystopia it's my
favorite dystopian book still if on a
winter's night a traveler the reason
I've included that is because the
narrative style is so interesting it
takes a second person perspective so
instead of it being you know first
person or third person aerated it's kind
of narrated by the second person so
you're a character within the narration
a Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens
also great expectations by Charles
Dickens around the world in 80 days I
never promised you a rose garden which
offers an early perspective on mental
health I think it's written in the 1970s
or 80s Oliver Twist by Charles Dickens
Lord of the Flies brave new world
1984 Of Mice and Men the color purple
dr. Jekyll and mr. Hyde Winesburg Ohio
this is a collection of stories from
within this tiny village town in a
okay I really do love books which are
sat in provincial towns and villages I
think it's because like it's not plot
driven as a novel there is so much more
of a focus on introspective thought
Invisible Man by Ralph Ellison not the
Invisible Man by actually Welles a
different book Invisible Man is so much
better
Bartleby the Scrivener by Herman
Melville this is the only short story
I've included on this list but it's so
good that I couldn't omit it and then
finally of the classic novels The Ballad
of the sad cafe by Carson McCullers
which again is a collection of short
stories and again is quite provincial
it's a bit like Winesburg Ohio then I've
just got to purge anthologies I'm gonna
recommend I could go on and on about
poetry but the two that are top for me
are the melancholy death of oyster boy
by Tim Burton and the complete poems of
Emily Dickinson Dickinson is my favorite
poet combining kind of two in one yes
I'd recommend the complete poems but I'd
also recommend the envelope poems which
is this little coffee table book and it
has these scans of how she'd actually
have written her poems okay next we are
going to go on to why a fiction I've got
26 wire books first of all your two
books by Laurie Halse Anderson catalyst
and winter girls a danger to herself and
others the strange and beautiful Sorrows
of Ava lavender Perks of Being a
Wallflower of course a good girl's going
to murder by Holly Jackson which was
that this might be my favorite wire book
of all time another of my favorites all
time is bullies like me which I've read
a lot of books about bullying especially
a couple years ago and this is the best
one I ever read about bullying Turtles
all the way down by John Green Aristotle
and Dante discover the secrets of the
universe the bad girls don't die series
believer oxic dear Alvin Hansen which is
based on the stage show
enter title here paperweights more than
this by Patrick nurse walking naked
small spaces by Sarah Epstein
hugely gripping thriller I literally
read that in one sitting
I hate you give by Angie Thomas what I
was by Meg Russell the ocean at the end
of the lane by Neil Gaiman the on wine
series
we were liars the slated trilogy wolf by
wolf every day and finally torn which I
read when I was in year 8 and I really
liked it it was one of my favorite books
but I reread it rookie mistake I reread
it last year and I didn't really like it
okay now we're gonna go into middle
grade books I do I have more middle
grade than why a Howl's Moving Castle by
Diana Wynne Jones tinder by Sally
Gardner Coraline by Neil Gaiman which I
used to read every night the day before
we went back to school but they're
awesome turn multiple-choice counting by
sevens which is probably my favorite
middle grade book a monster calls by
Patrick Ness makes me cry every time
wonder by RJ Palacio everyone has to
read this book the clockwork Sparrow
this is a trilogy I only read the first
one but I really liked it love Aubree
which I read when I was 11 probably read
it three or four times since that
beautiful that's really sad Gregory and
the grim buckle by Melanie Schubert I
love the concept behind this book
summer's dream by Cathy Cassidy Chris
has done strong The Lightning Thief
again I didn't read the whole series but
I read the first one 11 which is about
9/11 after the fire the alice-miranda
series I read this for the first time
2018 and I read quite a few books then
and I liked it she's such a cool
character they're really nice books just
to slip into the lie to you by Francis
Hardinge
Wolf Hollow Northern Lights the first
book in the dark material series I still
haven't read the rest of that series so
I was actually do something I want to
read this year then I've got a few
Jacqueline Wilson books
I did love Jacqueline Wilson when I was
younger I read every single Jacqueline
Wilson book it got to think it got to
the stage where I was I thought I wasn't
allowed to read Jacqueline Wilson
anymore because it was loads reading the
ones I really liked were my sister Jodie
I read when I was seven and I haven't I
it was the first time I cried at a book
I was in hysterics around our little
darlings bad girls I really liked wave
me goodbye I actually read more recently
just because I like the premise of it so
I decided to
I think dark emmalin's are really great
children's although the goldfish boy I
think that's the best perspective on a
CD which I've ever seen a middle grade
wide nut mister creature which is like a
retelling of Frankenstein Mockingbird
this is about a young girl with
high-functioning autism and how she's
dealing with grief memoirs of an
imaginary friend fat boy swim river boy
ways to live forever the bunker diary
which one the Carnegie I think the
cherub series which was oh my gosh
if you didn't read the child series when
you were younger you missed out on your
childhood that series are so good
persopolis which is actually a graphic
novel the only graphic novel over for
red banana pick hot boy by Mary Blackman
out of my mind
the ants colony and finally the gifted
series which I read in yes six and seven
and I really liked it
okay now we're gonna go to children's
books oh these aren't middle grade these
are slightly more classic children's
books but I wanted to put this aside in
a separate section I put seventeen of
these books I am David I don't know why
this book fit so I just put it in with
children's I kind of almost as an adult
book at the same time so it's really
difficult to say this is about boy who
escaped from a concentration camp the
Harry Potter series of course the
hobbits Peter Pan the Nutcracker a
little princess my favorite children's
book favourable time probably Little
Women Boy tales of childhood by Roald
Dahl Matilda by Roald Dahl secrets at
Mallory towers by Nina Blyton / Pamela
Cox swallows and Amazon's then the a
series of unfortunate events series but
my favorite one was definitely the
austere Academy Anna Green Gables the
little prince the complete works of
Angela Brazil she writes books quite
similar to Malory towers at boarding
school books
Alice in Wonderland and finally the
magical fairy tree by ena blyton which
was my favorite favorite favorite thing
I loved them when I was about seven or
eight we are next gonna go on to you
contemporary fiction
I've got 44 books in this category the
Institute by Stephen King history of the
rain light spirit
is actually a play three books by Ann
McKuen the children act on chesil beach
and atonement gather the daughters me
and Amma of time I read this it became
my favorite book history of walls
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close
let's just take a moment for this book
the man who walked through walls and
other stories this is a collection of
short stories I really like the way it
examines this the eccentricity of
humankind in our desires it's just
pretty good
cat's eye by Margaret Atwood of course
everything I never told you
elders our endless numbered days we need
to talk about kevin reconstructing
amelia the story of an african farm
eleanor elephant is completely fine
interview with a vampire the circle by
Dave Eggers great so much better than
the film or the film with a
disappointment it just didn't get what
the book was trying to say the disparate
endings annoy me so much but song by
Sebastian Faulks the Martian which I
just found was so funny the grass is
singing by Doris Lessing quarantine that
the right one in which is actually a
vampire book The Secret Life of Bees the
blood of the Lamb the girl who saved the
king of Sweden which is so good oh my
gosh I love the characters so much
before I go to sleep again a thriller
really fast paced The Kite Runner My
Sister's Keeper this is the one book I
would say you should watch the film
before you read the book The Curious
Incident of the dog in the night-time
never let me go I Know Why the Caged
Bird Sings which actually I should have
put with nonfiction and autobiography
but it's here Life of Pi The Lovely
Bones
The Book Thief the unlikely pilgrimage
of Harold fra Irish mother and daughter
short stories again a collection of
short stories I remember really liking
these ones 100 days of Solitude this
book was great I accidentally picked up
the wrong one so I was like 15 and I
picked up I thought it was a hundred
years of solitude like something picked
up 100 days of Sola to visit which is a
completely different book but I thought
it was fantastic it's this lady who goes
to spend a hundred days
being by herself in Greece the trouble
with goats and sheep and finally for
contemporary fiction lost for words
which is a bit like al-anon ofin okay
and then finally we are going to be
going on to nonfiction
I've got 28 non-fiction books and there
is a mixer so I've got a few
autobiographies and memoirs and then a
few kind of proper nonfiction books but
I group them all together first of all
we have got drive-by Daniel H pink which
I've spoken about so extensively on this
channel that you'll probably be tired of
hearing about it the universe inside of
you by Brian Craig educated a memoir by
Tara West over hard choices by Hillary
Clinton the French Revolution by
Christopher Hibbert's wonderful
comprehensive guide to the French
Revolution written like a story God
Delusion by Richard Dawkins sapiens
problems of philosophy by Bertrand
Russell a letter to a Christian nation
by Sam Harris the queen bees and
wannabes which kind of examines the
politics of schools this is the best
book ever the overachievers the secret
lives of different kids if you identify
as maybe someone who really tried very
hard in school I feel like you might
like this but it's really fascinating
it follows for a year I think seven or
eight high achievers in this school in
America and examines the pressures that
young people face and I would I would
highly recommend it the cost of
discipleship by Dietrich Bonhoeffer
this is going to hurt by Adam K a
million years in a day by Greg Jana
which basically examines the history of
daily things that we do every single day
like brushing our teeth going to the
toilet what's the history behind her The
Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls why I'm
no longer talking to white people about
race oranges are not the only fruit and
why be happy when you could be normal
the two memoirs by Jeanette Winterson
the really cool thing about this is how
she treats autobiography merging between
fiction and reality positive a memoir by
page rule this is about a girl born
hiv-positive miracles from heaven
you probably have seen the film the book
is very good in therapies transcripts
looking at what the patient and the
I say within the session and what the
therapist is thinking a child called it
which is harrowing really really
heartbreaking I'm Frank's diary of
course has to be on this list Night by
Elie Wiesel a night to remember which is
an account of the Titanic exactly what
happened The Simpsons and their
mathematical secrets I'm a huge fan of
The Simpsons the elements of eloquence
by Mark Forsyth which is fantastic
Fermat's Last Theorem my grammar and me
the Gospel according to The Simpsons the
motivation myth the miracle morning
and finally boy erased which I'm
actually reading at the moment but I had
to put it on this list because it's
wonderful I this I think it might be the
best memoir I've ever read it's about
this boy who goes through gay conversion
therapy in America it's heartbreaking
but his writing is so lyrical you just
feel the melancholy infused in the
actual writing itself so there we go
they are my two hundred book
recommendations I hope that you walked
away with some good new books to read
here there are quite a few there but as
promised I now have my very exciting
announcement to share with you for a
while now especially in the last couple
of weeks funnily enough lots of people
have been asking me to start a book club
and little did you know that in the
background I'd actually been in the
process of setting one up so at the
beginning of February we are going to be
launching a book love community where we
can all unite over a shared love of
reading and read the same book alongside
each other and share our thoughts
basically what I'm really envisioning
for this is that we can become the total
network of readers so there are gonna be
loads of book recommendations more book
reviews and all of this is going to be
happening over on my Instagram so the
whole book club will be over on
Instagram so if you do want to join the
book club if you want to be part of it
then please do head over to follow me on
instagram my instagram is just at
underscore ruby granger and as i said
we're gonna be starting at the beginning
of february when i will announce the
first book and yeah i am so so excited i
hope that some of you decide to join if
you do really like reading if you want
to
Connect over books make sure to head
over to my Instagram and follow me on
there after you want to be part of the
book club I hope that you enjoyed
watching this video and I hope that you
have a productive week